what's the definition of comedy thinkers
and philosophers from Plato and
Aristotle to hobbes freud and beyond
including anyone misguided enough to try
to explain a joke have pondered it and
no one has settled it you're lucky you
found this video to sort it out to
define comedy you should first ask why
it seems comedy defies definition the
answer is simple comedy is the defiance
of definition because definitions
sometimes need defiance consider
definition itself when we define we use
language to set borders around a thing
that we've perceived in the whirling
chaos of existence we say what the thing
means and fit that in a system of
meanings chaos becomes cosmos the
universe is translated into a
cosmological construct of knowledge and
let's be honest we need some logical
cosmic order otherwise we'd have pure
chaos chaos can be rough so we build a
thing that we call reality
now think about logic and logos that
tight knot connecting word and truth and
let's jump back to thinking about what's
funny because some people say it's real
simple truth is fun it's funny because
it's true but that's simplistic plenty
of Lies are funny comedic fiction can be
funny made-up nonsense gibberish is
frequently hilarious
for instance floorp hysterical and
plenty of truths aren't funny 2+2 truly
equals 4 but I'm not laughing just
because that's the case you can tell a
true anecdote but your date may not
laugh so why are some untruths and only
some truths funny how do these laughable
truths and untruths relate to that
capital T truth the cosmological reality
of facts and definitions and what makes
any of them funny there's a Frenchman
who can help another thinker who didn't
define comedy because he expressly
didn't want to all read bear song was a
French philosopher who prefaced his
essay on laughter by saying he wouldn't
define the comic because it's a living
thing he argued laughter has a social
function to destroy mechanical
inelasticity in people's attitudes and
behavior someone doing the same thing
over and over or building up a false
image of himself in the world or not
adapting to reality by just noticing the
banana peel on the ground
this is automatism
ignorant of one's own mindless rigidity
and it's dangerous but also laughable
and comic ridicule helps correct it the
comic is a kinetic vital force or along
VTOL that helps us adapt bear Saul
elaborates on this idea to study what's
funny about all sorts of things but
let's stay on this at the base of this
concept of comedy is contradiction
between vital adaptive humanity and
dehumanized automatism a set system that
claims to define reality might be one of
those dehumanizing forces that comedy
tends to destroy now let's go back to
Aristotle not poetics where he drops a
few thoughts on comedy no metaphysics
the fundamental law of non-contradiction
the bedrock of logic contradictory
statements are not at the same time true
if a is an axiomatic statement it can't
be the case that a and the opposite of a
are both true comedy seems to live here
to subsist on the illogic of logical
contradiction and its derivatives we
laugh when the order we project on the
world is disrupted and disproven like
when the way we all act contradicts
truths we don't like talking about or
when strange observations we all make in
the silent darkness of private thought
are dragged into public by a good stand
up and when cats play piano because cats
that are also somehow humans
disrupt our reality so we don't just
laugh at truth we laugh at the
pleasurable edifying revelation of flaws
incongruities overlaps and outright
conflicts in the supposedly ordered
system of truths we use to define the
world and ourselves when we think too
highly of our thinking when we think
things are true just because we all say
their logos and stop adapting we become
the butt of jokes played on us by that
wacky little trickster chaos comedy
conveys that destructive instructive
playfulness but has no logical
definition because it acts upon our
logic para logically from outside its
finite borders far from having a
definite definition it has an infinite
in finishin and the in finishin of
comedy is that anything can be mind for
comedy thus all definitions of reality
especially those that claim to be
universal logical cosmic capital
truth become laughable